---
author: Kirtiwardhan
---

In this blog post, I'm going to discuss Linux Environment and a simple overview of it. Also, what career opportunities are there in the Industry for Linux.

🔴 What is Linux?

Linux is a group of free and open-source operating systems. It’s based on core software called the Linux Kernel. The Kernel is free and open-source, which means that anyone can use it to create their version of Linux. Linux is the best-known and most-used open-source operating system. As an operating system, Linux is software that sits underneath all of the other software on a computer, receiving requests from those programs and relaying these requests to the computer’s hardware.

🔴 Why Choose Linux Over Windows

🔰 Open Source
The main difference between Windows and Linux is the ladder is open-source software, whereas the code for Windows is highly secure. Since Linux is an open-source operating system, anyone with a desktop and internet access can download it, change it, and contribute to the internal Kernel.

🔰 Free
Another major benefit of Linux is that it’s free. Users won’t have to pay up to \$250 to get their hands on a copy of a Linux distro (such as Ubuntu, Fedora).

🔰 Reliable
Linux is considered more reliable than Windows. Linux offers a top-notch interface, built-in security, and unmatched uptime. Its popular competitor, Windows, is known to be sluggish at times. Users need to re-install Windows after encountering crashes or slowdowns on your system. As a Linux user, you won’t have to worry about re-installing your system to experience a faster and smoother operation. Linux helps your system run smoothly for a more extended period.

🔰 Secure
While no operating system is entirely risk-free, Windows is a frequent victim for developers of viruses and malware. Since there’s little that Microsoft can do about this issue, users must install an antivirus application and firewall software. Unfortunately, this eats into your memory and CPU usage.

Linux by nature is more secure than Windows. When you choose Linux as your operating system, you just need to stick to the repositories and avoid using Adobe’s Flash.

🔰 Privacy
With increased government monitoring and corporate collection of user data, privacy has been the number one concern for savvy internet users. Independent security experts favor Linux over Windows or MacOS. Since most Linux distributions don’t collect your personal data, you can remain somewhat hidden from Big Brother.

🔴 Career options in Linux

🔰 Systems administrator: The professional is responsible to manage important services like HTTP, FTP, Cron jobs, DNS, creating backups, and other server related tasks. He is also the one who looks after the security and firewall related settings in the organization. The server-oriented distributions upon which the work is generally done include Red Hat Enterprises, Debian, CentOS, and Ubuntu.
Application and Web programmer: A major part of web content related publishing business is run on Linux, PHP, Apache, MySQL, and therefore the programmers who can write code in multiple languages or are able to design different databases and applications are preferred over the conventional ones.

🔰 Technician Job: The professional is responsible to handle workstations and desktops. The crucial areas include an understanding of partitioning, installation, providing services, troubleshooting networks, managing users, basic scripting, and operating system related problems. Getting a practical exposure in this domain is also quite easy as schools, colleges, and organizations often have requirements for candidates possessing this skillset. Getting an experience here will open a pathway for you to become an efficient Linux administrator.

🔰 Support: You can also be among those organizations that are looking to extend support to all the professionals globally who are currently working on Linux. With the extensive growth of Linux in enterprise and corporate areas, firms choose Linux over licensed windows.

🔰 Teaching and Writing: This is one other domain where you can see yourself employed. The above-mentioned aspirants need tutors to learn this course and you can be one of them. You can choose to do this privately or in any school, college, or any other institution. Writing can be related to providing documentation for large companies and the ones related to technical papers. You can also choose to work as a freelancer in teaching or writing.

🔴 Job opportunities/positions in linux

🔹 DevOps Engineer
🔹 Java Developer
🔹 Software Engineer
🔹 Systems Administrator
🔹 Systems Engineer
🔹 Senior Software Engineer
🔹 Python Developer
🔹 Network Engineer
🔹 Software Developer
🔹 Linux Engineering Admin
🔹 Software Developer
🔹 Linux Engineer
🔹 TechOps Engineer
🔹 Senior Java Developer
🔹 Build release management Engineer

🔴 Conclusion

So, here it is the current scenario and overview of career opportunities in Linux. I hope you guys get your own views on this and hit me up on the comment section.
I am always looking for different opportunities and challenges to make my personality and workflow better. I feel very grateful that we've a platform to make our profiles stand out.
It's a catastrophe that even after knowing its benefits people still prefeerf windows over it. But someday we' all will witness the revolution.
